add society (#337)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/maintain-guides-society-kusama.md

---
id: maintain-guides-society-kusama
title: Join Kappa Sigma Mu
sidebar_label: Join Kappa Sigma Mu
---

Kappa Sigma Mu is a membership club using the Substrate Society pallet. It is an economic game to incentivize users to join the society that coordinates around whatever the rules are decided to be. The members of the society are incentivized to participate in society via the rewards paid by the treasury. Currently, there is only one society on Kusama but it is possible to have multiple societies in the future through a runtime upgrade.

![Society Dashboard](assets/society/dashboard.jpg)

> Before joining the society, let's take a brief look at the [Society UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/society) on PolkadotJS apps and read through all the  [rules](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17) to become a member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before joining the society, let's take a brief look at the [Society UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/society) on PolkadotJS apps and read through all the [rules](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17) to become a member.
```

>
> If the randomly selected member does not vote, it will be treated as a rejection.
> 
> For each rotation period, the maximum number of members that can be accepted is set as 10. 

A - Accept,  R - Reject,  S - Skeptic

Member   | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 |
-------- | - | - | - | - | - |
Vote     | A | A | A | R | S |
Selected |   |   | X |   |   | 

In this example, a candidate will be approved to join the society since member 3 was selected as a final voting outcome. A number of members will also be randomly chosen as "skeptics" to vote for the candidates during the rotation period. Since member 5 was chosen as a skeptic, they are required to participate in the voting process. If they do not participate in voting, they will be punished with one strike per missing vote. If one accumulates too many strikes, one's membership is suspended which means they may need to re-apply and their unclaimed payouts will be slashed. Moreover, each member who voted opposite to the randomly selected vote will have their unclaimed payouts slashed and strikes increased. In this case, member 4 will be punished.

> **_NOTE:_** 
>
> The maximum number of strikes you can have is 10 in Kusama.

> These slashed funds (It is set as `2` KSM currently) will be given to a random member who voted the same as the selected vote as a reward for participating in the vote. It is also required to lock-up for some period of time before the member can get it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The slashed funds (2 KSM currently) will be given to a random member who voted the same as the selected vote as a reward for participating in the vote. The reward is escrowed for some period of time - see below.
```

#### Lock-up Time

> It would take the number of members of the society as the variable to determine how many blocks you have to wait in order to get the payout. The longest lock-up time is closer to 3 years. The formula is available [here](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/master/frame/society/src/lib.rs#L1588) if you would like to have a look.

Reviewer: We should not link to lines of code. Not even to source files, really, but better than lines of code.

```suggestion
It would take the number of members of the society as the variable to determine how many blocks you have to wait in order to get the payout. The longest lock-up time is closer to 3 years. The formula is defined [in the society pallet](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/master/frame/society/) if you would like to have a look.
```

Example: 

```
Let's assume we have 5 members in the society.

lock_duration = 100 - 50,000 / (5 + 500)
lock_duration * MAX_LOCK_DURATION_IN_BLOCKS

Result = 1% * 15,552,000 ~ 11 days
```

Based on the above calculation, it is required to wait close to 11 days to get the slashed funds.

> If the candidate wins the vote, they receive their bid reward as a future payout. If the bid was placed by a voucher, they will get the reward that was set during vouching with the remainder given to the candidate.

Reviewer: Will the voucher get the money instantly, or also escrow?

Author: escrow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the candidate wins the vote, they receive their bid reward as a future payout. If the bid was placed by a voucher, they will get the reward that was set during vouching with the remainder given to the candidate - both escrowed for some time.
```
